                                                                 Social Engineering

Social Engineering is the non-technical part of gaining information.

Social Engineering Statistics :
Social Engineering is an act of stealing sensitive information from humans. As it does not have any interaction with the targets on network.
Social Engineering is considered as the art of convincing the victim to reveal sensitive information. It may be physically one-to-one
interaction with the victim or convincing the victim on any platform such as social media.

Factors that make companies Vulnerable to Attacks :
Insufficient Security Training
Unregulated Access to the Information
Several Organizational Units.
Lack of Security Policies

It is difficult to detect social engineering attempts
There is no method to ensure complete security from social
engineering attacks.

Types of Social Engineering

Human-based Social Engineering -

Impersonation
1. It is most common human-based social engineering technique.
2. Impersonation means pretending to be someone or something. Impersonating in social engineering is pretending of an attacker to be legitimate user or pretending to
be an authorized person, either personally or using a communication medium such as phone, email, Etc.
3. Impersonation helps attackers in tricking a target to reveal sensitive information.

Eavesdropping
1. Eavesdropping is the act of secretly or stealthily listening to the private conversation or communications of others without their consent in order to gather
information.Interception of audio, video, or written communication.
2. It can be done using communication channels such as telephone lines, email, instant messaging, etc.

Shoulder Surfing
It is a direct observation technique like looking over someone’s shoulder to know the sensitive information like password, pin numbers, etc.

Dumpster Diving
Any confidential or sensitive document should be properly shredded before disposed into the dustbin. If not, an attacker may just look into the
dustbin to access the confidential information.

Reverse Social Engineering
A situation in which an attacker presents himself as an authority and the target seeks his advice offering the information that he needs
Reverse social engineering attack involves sabotage, marketing, and tech support.

Computer-based Social Engineering
Pop-up windows - Windows that suddenly pop up while surfing the internet and ask for users information to login or signup.
Spam mail - irrelevant, unwanted and unsolicited email to collect the finacial information, social security numbers and network information.

Phishing or mass phishing
Creating a cloned fake website trying to gather sensitive information about users. It can be done by sending a fake email as though coming from an original website
and then trying to collect confidential information.
Phishing emails or pop-ups redirect users to fake webpages of mimicking trustworthy sites that ask them to submit their personal information.
To sent fake email ( HYPERLINK "https://anonymousemail.me/"https://anonymousemail.me/) , (https://emkei.cz/), (sendinblue)

Spear Phishing
Spear phishing is a direct, targeted phishing attack aimed at specific individuals within an organization.
In contrast to normal phishing attack where attackers send out hundreds of generic messages to random email addresses, attackers use spear phishing to send a message with specialized, social engineering content directed at a specific person or a small group of people. 
Spear phishing generates higher response rate when compared to normal phishing attack.

Repacking Legitimate Apps
Attacker initially download a popular, most in-demand application from application store typically Games and Anti-virus are most commonly used.
Attacker repackages the application with malware and uploads it to a third-party store.

SMS Based
Sending a fake SMS saying that user has won a bounty, urging victim to register with confidential information or try and collect other important details.

Insider Attacks
If a disgruntled employee wants to take revenge, he can install malicious applications to steal/modify information,
causing significant damage to the organization or he can be bribed by the competitor to reveal or steal company secrets, intellectual property information, etc.
An inside attack is easy to launch.
Prevention is difficult.
The inside attacker can easily succeed.

Preventing Insider Attacks
- Separation and rotation of duties
- Least privilege
- Controlled access
- Logging and auditing
- Legal policies
Note - There is no Single Solution to prevent an insider threat

Identify Theft
Identity theft occurs when someone steals your personally identifiable information for fraudulent purposes.
It is a crime in which an imposter obtains personal identifying information such as name, credit card number, social security or driver license numbers, etc. to commit
fraud or other crimes.
Attackers can use identity theft to impersonate employees of a target organization and physically access the facility

Social Engineering Countermeasures
Social Engineering attacks can be mitigated by several methods. Privacy in the corporate environment is necessary to mitigate shoulder surfing and dumpster diving
threats.
Configure Strong Passwords, Securing Passwords, keeping them secret will protect against social Engineering.
Anti-Virus/Anti-Phishing Defenses: Use multiple layers of anti-virus defenses at end-user and mail gateway levels to minimize social engineering attacks. 
Two-Factor Authentication: Instead of fixed passwords, use two-factor authentication for high-risk network services such as VPNs and modem pools.

https://youtu.be/BEHl2lAuWCk

Bonus
Some Movies
Matchstick Men - 2003
Catch Me If You Can - 2002
Ocean's Eleven - 2001
Mr Robot Web Series
Mickey Virus
Because, Movies is an excellent way to study in the art of social engineering, the act of manipulating people into performing actions or divulging confidential information.

Tools :
setoolkit
advphishing
zphisher
seeker