                                                                  Web Application Hacking

What is web application? - A web application (or web app) is application software that runs on a web server, unlike computer-based software programs that are
run locally on the operating system (OS) of the device. Web applications are accessed by the user through a web browser with an active network connection.

How web application works? - A web application functions works in two steps, Front-end and Back-end these are the two function every web application use.
Users are interacting with the front-end all user requests is handled by front-end.
All processing was controlled and processed by the back-end.

Front-end/Clint side languages:
HTML
CSS
Javascript

Back-end/Server-side languages:
PHP
Java
C#
Javascript
Python

Owasp Top 10 2017
1. Injection - Injection occurs when attacker are able to inject malicious command, scripts, qweries etc.
2. Broken Authentication - When some applications are implemented incorrectly, It allows an attacker to compromise login pages, passwords and sessions.
3. Sensitive Data Exposure - Sensitive data exposure happens when important stored or transmitted data is compromised.
4. XML External Entities(XXE) - XXE Happens when application is using vulnerable component processing XML.
5. Broken Access Control(Authorization) - Broken access control happens when attacker is able to get access to other users accounts. It can be normal user or admin.
6. Security Misconfiguration - It happens when something is implemented incorrectly, like default users, default passwords, misconfigured headers etc.
7. XSS(Cross-Site Scripting) - Executing Java Script, PHP or any Language code/scripts on web application is known as Cross-Site Scripting.
8. Insecure Deserialization - When user-controllable data is deserialized by a website. This potentially enables an attacker to manipulate serialized
objects in order to pass harmful data into the application code.
9. Using components with known vulnerabilities.
10. Insufficent logging and monitoring.

Burpsuite :
Burp or Burp Suite is a set of tools used for penetration testing of web applications.

Intruder tab :
Payload position type -
1. Sniper will work on one point.
2. In battering ram we will use single wordlist in different points.
3. In Pithfork we will use multiple wordlist for multiple positions both the wordlist will go simultaneously.
4. In cluster bomb we can use different and multiple wordlist on different different parameter and it will bruteforce first username with every password
and then go with another one.


DVWA Lab :
We will perform testing on this vulnerable lab.